Now to get started with some code, I want to start in the SharePlace.js file which is the Javascript
file that ultimately gets imported here in that root index.html file.
This is the file which will be responsible for controlling what we have here in the end, for controlling
the different buttons we got there to find a place by address or to get the current user location.
So we'll start in the SharePlace.js file and now we have an important decision to make,
do we want to use an object oriented style where we work with classes or do we want to use a more functional
programming style where we only work with different functions that do stuff and don't organize our code in
classes?
There is no wrong or right choice here but I will go for the object oriented approach also to make sure
that we can practice working with classes again
and therefore here in the SharePlace.js file, I'll create a new class and I will name it place finder.
Now you can name that class whatever you want of course, you should just follow that naming convention
where you start with an upper case character and then you have one word where every word in the word
also starts with a new upper case character and this will be my central class for hooking up all these
buttons we got in our HTML page for getting an address or for getting a place, so find place and get current
location, these two buttons should be managed by this class in the end. So inside of the place finder,
I'll start by making sure that we get access to these buttons and that we add event listeners to them,
so I want to get access to this find place button or since it's of type submit and inside of a form,
I actually want to get access to this form here and listen to the submit event and I want to get access
to this get current location button and listen to a click on it.
So for that we can go to SharePlace.js and here in the class, add a constructor so that we
have some code that runs right away when we create a new instance of this class.
Now in there, I want to get access to my address form and I want to get access to the locate user button.
Now for the address form, to get access we can use document query selector and then just query for the
first form element we find because it turns out that on this index.html file, we only got one form
element, so of course we'll find that and we'll have access to the form I want to have access to. For the
locate user button here,
I want to get access to this button and as you can see, this button got an ID, so one way of getting
access to the button would be to use that ID, so we can just do document get element by ID and enter
that ID here and with that, we get access to these two DOM elements and we store references to these elements
in these two constants.
Now we can also add event listeners to these buttons and we can do that right here in the constructor
if we want to,
we can go to the locate user button and add an event listener, a click event listener where I want to
fire some method which we have to add to this class that should get the user location. So let's add a
new method here, maybe locate user handler is a fitting name, again I like that pattern where the methods
or the functions that are attached to an event end with handler, It's not a must do, it's just one convention
which I sometimes like to use and then this will be the method I want to trigger when we click that button,
so here we can point at locate user handler. Don't execute it as you learned,
instead just point at it so that Javascript and the browser can execute this function for us or this method
for us whenever this event occurs. Now I also will need another method because we also got the address form
here and of course there I also want to add an event listener here however to the submit event and then
here, again we want to trigger a method and you can name this method however you want of course, I will
name it find address handler because that's ultimately what this method will do
and therefore here, we can point at this find address handler. With that, we get the two buttons connected
or we get the two events connected and now we can start with either of the two things, I will start with
getting the user location here.